# To be clarified

- p3: Having to commit to which page to keep before voting supposedly prevents issues such as 'chain voting'. What is this exactly?
  - As a voter you get a pre-filled ballot from malicious party
  - You put that in the urn, and hand your clean one (which you received at the voting place) back to the malicious party
  - Hence the chain
  - But not sure how this is prevented by having to commit to which half to keep beforehand

- P tables: What do P1, P2 /actually/ contain? The permuted values printed on the ballot's top/bottom page, or the permutations (via e.g. a PRNG seed)?
  - Sometime they refer to those being 'protected by encryption', but that makes not a lot of sense if what it contains is the permuted ballot values
  - But in their examples what they do show is the actual permuted values

=> I think what is the case is that P1, P2 are encrypted so they can be published in full at first, along with commitments to their plaintext. Then in the first audit phase, half are decrypted, allowing them to be verified
- I think this also needs to tie the commitment to the ciphertext though?

- 8.3: Supposedly permutations of c elements can be generated by cyclic shifts?

# Notes

- The paper is /weird/
- Not using standard commitment schemes, rather a custom one based on AES
  encrypting a constant, with the key derived from the message one commits to
  - No security properties shown
- Bunch of obvious typos (ECB vs EBC)
- Unclear usage, e.g. sometime referring to `P_1` as encryption of permutation,
  sometimes as permutation, sometimes as result of permutation applied to
  canonical ballot (so ordered set)...

- There seems to be the assumption that, once ballots are printed and initial
  audit (spoiling 1/2 the ballots) done, no more changes to printed ballots are
  possible
  - If that could be done, the EA could after the 1st phase of the audit modify the ballots at will
  - Not the D table as that one has column commitments, but certainly the P table
  - That could be fixed by having voters verify their ballot matches the
    earlier published commitment, but that is not planned
  - Section 7.4: Some voters are actually expected to verify their ballot's commitment!

# Attacks

- If voter discards receipt, cheating EA will know that they can mess with that vote
  - Operations using decryption table etc must still be valid, but they can
    simply fake P3, the cast vote

- Voting machines sign their scanned results to allow tracking down malicious
  ones, but if a voting machine can attach a signature generated by another
  machine, then it will look as if the voter had falsified their receipt

- Malicious EA might e.g. encode order information in serial number

- Malicious EA also just knows the utilized permutation. This won't allow them
  to fake results, but will violate voter privacy.
  Potential solution: Generate ballots in distributed manner.
